I will assume you are on Windows, but the commands are the same everywhere.

0. Prerequisites

Install Git
Download and install from the Git website.
During install, accept defaults unless you know what you are doing.
Create a GitHub account
Sign up on GitHub if you do not already have an account.

Configure Git (only once per system)

git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your-email@example.com"

1. Create a repo on GitHub

Log in to GitHub.

Click the "+" icon at the top right → "New repository".

Fill details:
Repository name: for example web-fs-programs
Description: optional
Visibility: Public or Private

Do not tick "Initialize this repository with a README" if you are a beginner and want fewer conflicts.

Click "Create repository".

On the next page, you will see a section "…or push an existing repository from the command line". We will use that.

Keep that page open.
2. Go to your project folder
Suppose your project is in D:\projects\web-fs-programs.

Open Command Prompt or Git Bash and run:

cd /d D:\projects\web-fs-programs

Check that files are there:
dir


You should see your project files and folders.
3. Initialize Git in your project
Run:
git init

This creates a hidden .git folder and turns your folder into a git repository.
4. Add files and make the first commit
Add all files to staging:
git add .

Create your first commit:
git commit -m "Initial commit"

5. Connect local repo to GitHub repo (remote)

On the GitHub page for your new repository you will see a URL like:

HTTPS: https://github.com/your-username/web-fs-programs.git
or

SSH: git@github.com:your-username/web-fs-programs.git

Use the HTTPS one if you are not sure.

In your project folder run:

git remote add origin https://github.com/your-username/web-fs-programs.git


You can verify:

git remote -v

6. Choose branch name (main or other)

If you want to use a specific branch, for example web-fs-programs, you can rename or create it.

Option A: Use main (simple option)

git branch -M main
git push -u origin main


Option B: Use a custom branch name (for example web-fs-programs)

git branch -M web-fs-programs
git push -u origin web-fs-programs


The first time you push, Git may ask for your GitHub username and password or a personal access token if you use HTTPS.

After this, your project is on GitHub. Refresh the repo page in the browser and you should see all files.

7. Daily workflow after setup

When you change code later, the cycle is:

Check status

git status


Stage changed files

git add .


Commit with a message

git commit -m "Describe what you changed"


Push to GitHub

If your branch is web-fs-programs:

git push


or:

git push origin web-fs-programs

8. Cloning an existing GitHub project to your system

If the repo already exists on GitHub and you want it on your machine:

cd /d D:\projects
git clone https://github.com/your-username/web-fs-programs.git
cd web-fs-programs


Then use the same workflow: git add → git commit → git push.